
# The Iliad - Book 20: The Gods in Council

Now the gods sat in council over the people of Troy and the
Achaeans, with Jove in the seat of gold upon Olympus. He spoke, and all
the other gods gave ear. "Hear me," said he, "gods and goddesses, that
I may speak even as I am minded; let none of you neither goddess nor
god try to cross me, but let me have my own way from henceforth. If I
see any one acting apart and helping either Trojans or Danaans, he
shall be beaten back to Olympus sorely galled, or I will hurl him down
into dark Tartarus far into the deepest pit under the earth, where the
gates are iron and the floor bronze, as far beneath Hades as heaven is
high above the earth, that you may learn how much the mightiest I am
among you. Try me and find out for yourselves. Hangs me a golden chain
from heaven, and lay hold of it all of you, gods and goddesses
together- tug as you will, you will not drag Jove the supreme
counsellor from heaven to earth; but were I to pull at it, I should draw
you up with earth and sea into the bargain, and then I would bind the
chain about some pinnacle of Olympus and leave you all dangling in the
mid firmament. So far am I above all others either of gods or men."

They were frightened and all of them held their peace, for he had
spoken masterfully; but at last Minerva answered, "Father, son of
Saturn, king of kings, we all know that your might is not to be
gainsaid, but we are sorry for the Danaan warriors, who are perishing
and coming to a bad end. We will, however, since you so bid us, refrain
from actual fighting, but we will make serviceable suggestions to the
Argives, that they may not all of them perish in your displeasure."

Jove smiled at her and answered, "Take heart, my child, Trito-born; I
am not really in earnest, and I wish to be kind to you."

